Hello, everyone.
Welcome to China News.
I'm Zizhuo.
A woman from Hong Kong used three months to go deep into the 14 once poor areas of the mainland.
Climbing the stairs, taking a walk, from the rain to the desert, she showed the world the real face of China's poverty.
She is Hong Kong TVB host Cheng Bei'er, who touched China in the year 2021.
Today, we are honored to have Mr. Bei'er to tell us the story behind the story of the treasured documentary, The Endless Road.
Now we see Mr. Bei'er is online.
Hello, Mr. Bei'er.
Hello, welcome to Zouke Center.
Say hello to our netizens in Mandarin.
Okay, okay.
Hello everyone, I'm Chen Fei Er.
Hello everyone, I'm Chen Gu Yi.
I'm very happy to be able to chat with you here.
Hello, Zizuo.
Hello, hello, Fei Er.
Welcome, Gu Yi.
Welcome, Belle.
As we all know, Belle came to Beijing not long ago to participate in the Chinese Film Awards.
She was also the best female host of TVB in Hong Kong.
How do you see yourself in Hong Kong and the mainland?
I am very grateful to the audience and netizens for their support of our program.
I think I'm very lucky to have the opportunity to shoot this program.
For me, this program is not just a program.
During the three months, we went to six provinces and more than ten areas that were extremely poor.
Because I grew up in the city, so before I went back to the mainland to shoot the documentary, my concept of the countryside was actually very vague.
So during these three months, it was a very precious moment in my life.
I was learning every day during the shoot.
So I think after shooting this show for three months, the day of the funeral, I was already very satisfied.
When I first started filming, the whole team was very united, and we went through a lot of difficulties.
But after we finished filming, I think we learned a lot during this process.
So we are very satisfied.
After that, our show was broadcast and received everyone's support.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Bel.
Thank you for bringing us such a wonderful and precious program.
We know that the beginning of the show is the highest score of the annual documentary.
In the process of filming, you and your team did not expect that the result would be so much attention and love.
Wow, we really didn't think about it at all.
Because I myself, when I do a show, my original intention is to be able to do my job well with all my heart.
And then I think as a media person, I want to pass on the real situation to my audience through our camera.
That was originally my division.
So I think I worked hard and our team worked hard.
In fact, during this process, we have already We felt very satisfied.
We felt that the support from the audience was an extra, a bonus, a surprise for us.
So before filming this show, I really didn't know what the effect would be like.
Instead, I focused on whether I was in a good state at every moment when I was filming the show, and whether I needed to invest in it.
This is the most important thing for me to do when filming a show.
We know that after this program was broadcast, it received a lot of good reviews in mainland China and Hong Kong.
Belle, after this program was broadcast in Hong Kong, what kind of reflections did Hong Kong audiences usually have?
Have you communicated with them?
Every time the program is broadcast, my social media platforms, the audience will be very eager to leave me comments.
I read every comment.
So I am very grateful that after they saw the program, they gave me comments that they think through this program, they can now understand more about the development of our country.
We also know how the results of our Toping space can be implemented in every village.
They can really improve the actual situation of their lives.
They are all very touched.
And for the content of our program, they will also be very curious.
I think it's very interesting.
Our viewers in Hong Kong feel that the country is developing so well and so fast.
I encourage them to watch the show.
If they feel that the show is welcoming, touching, or curious, I encourage them to take the time to go back to their home country,
to feel and experience it, to go to each of our places, and to communicate with the villagers, and to chat with them.
What do they eat now?
What do they do with their friends?
I am very encouraged by this personal experience.
I think this endless journey is to rely on everyone to walk out on their own.
So I am also very happy.
The reactions from my friends in Hong Kong are also very sincere, especially in Hong Kong.
We Hongkongers actually love to eat, so our show, for example, introduces Yunnan's coffee, Hainan's organic tea, or Rong'an's Jingju,
and so on.
Wow, the reactions are all very glorious.
They are all asking me, Where can they buy and support those agricultural products?
I think through this program, I can also introduce it to my audience in Hong Kong.
I know that China's agricultural industry is also developing very well.
Everyone can support more.
You can also buy through consumption.
You can also support our villagers.
I think this is also very interesting.
In fact, when I was in December last year, it was the first time I was in touch with the gathering of the Endless Road.
I was very shocked after watching the two episodes.
After I watched it, I immediately read the comments, including those of us in the mainland, those of us in the Hong Kong and Macao regions,
and those of us overseas.
I found that many of the audience were talking about this issue, and they all said one word, which is sincerity.
Then again, do you think sincerity is the password to the success of the Endless Road?
Do you think it's a successful password?
I think our program really keeps the original intention, which is to make the most authentic, are presented to the audience through our camera.
I saw a lot of viewers saying that this program is very down-to-earth, very sincere, and so on.
I think our program is actually growing from small to large.
We go to every point, every region that has been extremely poor, to interview those representatives, and then from their stories,
their little stories, to create a blueprint for a better society.
So I think the audience will be moved to see that the lives of the villagers and the people are already very happy and confident.
They are very satisfied.
They are happy to see the improvement of the lives of the villagers.
They are also touched by this.
I was also touched by this when I was filming the program.
I think our program can move people because I was the first one to be touched.
First of all, you were moved by yourself, and then you were able to bring your emotions to everyone.
So I think that Invincible can be successful for many other reasons besides sincerity.
How would you rate the success of this documentary?
I think we should make our programs with our hearts.
I think that people should rely on their sincere hearts.
When I was shooting the show, I didn't think of it as just a job.
I went to every point.
Every friend that we arranged to meet, I really wanted to make friends with them, to get to know their lives, to complete the show.
It's not just a job.
I think it's more of a mission.
And it's also an opportunity for me to learn by myself.
So, what do you call it, a password for success?
I think I really didn't have a very, how to say it, a very planned way to get to a point, to do something, to say something to move people.
In fact, it's all out of a very sincere, very natural instinct, a nature.
So I think it should be the most sincere way to treat others.
Well said.
Speaking of which, I've always been very curious about the name of the book.
Because I think many people have read it.
It's a book about one and the same thing.
I've heard a lot of people's interpretations.
I don't know how you interpret it.
Can you share with us the process of the creation of this name?
I think the name Wuchong Road is really interesting.
It was chosen by Mr. Yuan from our news department.
Of course, Wuchong Road means that there is no poverty, because there is no poverty.
And there is also a deeper interpretation.
I think that after the people are poor, we are also on the way to a better and happier life.
This is also a Wuchong Road that everyone should work hard on.
So on this road, we all have to work harder and be united to go on together.
So we are also planning to shoot a sister-brother film.
In fact, on this road, I think there are really too many stories about our China that are worth shooting and should be shot.
So this is also a way of learning.
For me, it is also a way of learning.
I also hope that we can continue to do this as a bridge, to talk about our Chinese story with all our heart.
I also hope that everyone can follow me on this road of no end.
It seems that it is not only the road of Tuoping Palace, but also more of our TV people, media people, and then the story of everyone playing cards to go on this relatively long road.
Fei'er, we know that there are only five people in your original project, so you have to go to so many places in these three months.
In fact, you must have done a lot of work in the early stages.
Yes, our crew consists of five people.
Our TVB in Hong Kong sent four people, including me, Chen Ying, Benson, and two other photographers.
Four of them came back to China from Hong Kong.
One of them is a girl from Guangzhou.
She is in charge of I think it's really difficult because five people in a team, not many people.
The best part is that we are determined to complete this program.
It's very powerful.
I remember every time we arrived at a certain point, because there were only five of us, we would pick up our cameras and take pictures of what we saw.
Although there are two camera men, all five of us are photographers.
We see what we need to shoot, and we will shoot.
If we reach a certain point, and we think that the person is worth interviewing, and we want to know more about them, we will chat with them,
talk to them, and communicate with them.
So even though five of us didn't have much work to do, we did what we had to do.
Even though there were only five of us, we had five cameras and five reporters.
So that was very powerful.
I'm very grateful to be able to be part of such a great team.
Because three months is actually very difficult and very tiring.
Yes, there are so many places.
But we really support each other, and we really encourage each other in this journey.
It is a family of life and death.
We have also experienced a lot of difficulties, but we can overcome them one by one.
I also want to know how you choose the right place and the right person in advance.
Yes, of course.
Before we started this program, we had a plan of where we would go, and which people we would interview.
That was a very detailed plan.
Because our space for peace is precisely for poverty alleviation.
Our country is so big, there are so many places, and there are different regions.
They need to be flat, but the reason for the flatness is different.
So the precise flatness is aimed at the place.
They found a plan to cooperate with the place for the poor.
So the so-called precise flatness.
For example, the cliff village is a very typical example of a flat.
They used to live at such a high It takes more than 2,000 units to get to that area, so it must be done through the Topee,
the ED class, to move them down and set them up in a very well-matched room.
And then there is, for example, the tourist welfare.
The most classic example of tourist welfare, of course, is Li Tang.
There is a net celebrity, Ding Zhen.
His exposure can also be said to have reddened the whole Li Tang.
And then it's also because of tourism.
To drive the economy, so that the places of the litany can be flattened.
Then there are also different solutions, such as industrial poverty alleviation, education poverty alleviation, infrastructure,
that is, building bridges, and so on, to flatten the place.
For example, in Nujang, the place where people used to cross the river, it was only through a dangerous loop.
And now the government has also built more than 100 bridges to connect the two sides.
So this is also one of the in terms of transportation.
So when we say we choose a place, there are actually four elements to choose from.
We have to choose a specific and representative place, and we have to present a different plan for the space to be flattened,
and a precise flattening method to the audience.
It is for this reason that we chose different places and different representatives in our 12 episodes.
That's very good.
I'm actually more curious about the cliff village in Sichuan-Zhaojue County.
At that time, the first level was climbing more than 5,000 steps.
It took more than 10 hours.
It was actually very, very hard work.
I want to know why you had to climb it yourself.
Because it must have consumed a lot of energy for you, right?
Yes, it's very tiring.
There are so many things to do.
And we grew up in the city.
If I had to climb more than a dozen stairs, I would probably be a little angry, right?
But that day, our design team didn't really give me any pressure.
They said, just do your best.
Because if you really can't get to the top, there are other ways to tell the story.
But I think I'm asking myself to have this personal experience.
Because I think I have really climbed up every level like this, I can deeply experience and experience those villagers.
They have been living on the cliff village for generations.
Under their mentality, How do they feel?
And when we finished shooting, we went to their new studio the next day.
Then I could really feel their heart from despair to the feeling of full of hope.
I have only experienced it myself.
I can do it in front of my camera, in front of my audience.
To tell the story to them.
It was very, very hard to climb the downhill.
I felt a little dizzy when I climbed halfway.
But I really admire our villagers.
I think they have been running like this every day, and I am just a passer-by in front of them.
I don't have a reason to complain about my hard work in front of them.
So I'm really grateful to the Muslims and non-Muslims who accompanied me and encouraged me during the filming process.
I'm very grateful to have their support and encouragement.
And it's because I personally experienced their hard work that I really feel that their happiness now is not easy.
I was very happy for him.
Well, in fact, you've been to so many places all the way to see different scenery and visit different people.
So in your opinion, which character do you think brought you this feeling or shock?
Wow, actually every point.
Actually, they all have different memories and views.
I think every point, every person we interviewed, they all represent a different personality of Chinese people.
For example, in Xuan Ya Village, we interviewed a certain woman.
She was not afraid of hardship, the spirit of not giving up.
They are the villagers of our village.
They are living in such a difficult environment, but they can hold on to it.
They can overcome it.
So I think it's really amazing.
And then we went to Lujang.
In Lujang, we also interviewed Dr. Liu Suo.
He also represents the commitment to respect the commitment.
This kind of precious mentality also makes me want to bow to him.
It also made me feel very touched.
Then we went to the auditorium and saw Ding Zhen.
There are also a lot of young people over there.
They are all very amazing and very mission-oriented.
They are also the current internet celebrities of Zhihua County.
Can send short videos through the Internet, etc.
I think this is also a great sense of mission for young people in China.
So I think at every point, I can see that different people, Chinese people, are acting out their great personalities.
So it makes me feel very, very touched.
You mentioned a lot of characters, and I noticed one of them.
She was a woman from Yunnan who planted coffee and raised women.
Her name was Ye Ping, and I think you remember her.
I remember when I was reading the film, I found out that you mentioned this person and said that she was a Geng Ye.
Can you recall what happened at that time?
What kind of point touched you?
Yes, you just asked me which character touched me the most.
Actually, I really think it's hard to choose.
I just mentioned three of them, and the one you just mentioned, Ye-Ping, is also very admirable.
A woman can take on a responsibility, a mission, and in addition to doing it for herself, In addition, the whole village was also flattened because he started to grow coffee.
He told me that in the past, the ethnic minorities in their village did not have a high position, and even had to share tables with men to eat.
But later, he was very confident in himself and was very confident in his ability.
So she thought that everyone could try to make coffee to help with poverty alleviation.
So I think as a woman, she really taught me to believe in myself and not to underestimate my ability.
Women are the strongest.
Yes, I noticed that too.
Very impressive.
That day, he gave me a cup of his coffee.
I drank it in my mouth.
I still remember the feeling of warmth in my heart.
That cup of coffee actually represents his coffee life.
When you drink it in your mouth, it may be a little bitter at first, but the taste, the taste of the liver, the taste of the liver,
the taste of the liver, shì luǎn zài xīn tóu de nèi bēi kā fēi, The story is so moving and touching.
It's a story of hard times and sweet times.
Yes, it's a story of hard times and sweet times.
I saw that you recently posted a post on Weibo.
It's a report from the Chinese Women's Daily.
It reports that Guizhou has been guarding 13 villages for 36 years.
It's a village girl named Luo Haixiang.
I want to ask if you like to pay attention to women's topics.
Yes, of course.
I think women should not underestimate their power.
I think women are very powerful.
We are in different positions, even if you are a normal woman working, or you need to take care of your family.
Actually, taking care of the family is also very great.
So I think we are in different positions, as long as we are determined, to use their own abilities, they will shine and shine.
They are the best female protagonists in everyone's mind.
Female protagonists.
Um, um.
At that time, we went to Li Tang, which is more than 4,000 meters above sea level.
In fact, our design team also prepared a good schedule for us for Li Tang.
Before that, they thought it would be better not to waste time.
Because the shooting time is also very short.
So we can just take the plane directly.
But because we In order to slowly adapt to the high altitude, I had to take the car to pass one by one.
But then I also had the reaction of the mountain.
At that time, my head was very, very painful.
It had never been so painful before.
And my heart was stinging.
It was like there was a big stone pressing my heart.
So they helped me to go to the hospital.
I took a day off.
I can get used to it the next day.
They said that my body If you are really interested, you can go to the auditorium.
As long as you get the right treatment, don't be afraid to have a high-risk reaction.
I also remember what you said when you talked about this experience.
You said you wanted to appreciate the scenery and face the difficulties.
What do you think of the scenery of the auditorium?
How did you feel when you were shooting in the auditorium?
The scenery in Litang is very, very beautiful.
I remember very well that this is the last stop of our three-month filming journey.
In fact, after more than two months of filming, my body is already very tired.
But after going to Litang, you will feel that the whole person, the whole mood seems to be able to relax suddenly.
I also think that people will appreciate the scenery and the people there.
They will also give you a feeling of comfort, even with a serious smile.
Yes, everyone thinks that a serious smile is really comforting.
I think that place has a very mysterious power for me.
I still remember it very well.
In addition to Ding Zheng, the people of Li Tang, and the young people of Malaya, I can really feel from their faces how pure they are about the world.
I still hope that there will be a chance to bring it back.
We know that Belle has been living in a prosperous city.
She was born in Hong Kong and went to Canada to study.
You may not have had a profound experience of poverty.
Why did you come to the mainland to shoot a program about poverty alleviation?
I think this program is a rare opportunity for me.
Our TVB managers often have the opportunity to go back to China for communication.
Mr. Yuan Ziwei, Ms. Huang Shuming, etc.
They actually went back to their home country, and after the exchange, they went back to Hong Kong.
They felt that they had to make a show to let Hong Kong viewers and overseas viewers know about the development of the country.
Last year, the country announced that the free space was a complete victory.
And it's also much earlier than the United Nations Sustainable Development Plan, which can be completed in 10 years.
So I think it's a very, very great thing.
And how can it be done?
Why can it be done?
I think a lot of people have this question.
We hope to let everyone know through this program.
So we also made a special version in English.
We hope to let the audience in and out of the sea know about the development of our country.
Well, in fact, Belle is now shooting the second part of The Endless Road.
It should be shot soon.
I want to know, do you think the first part has achieved such a good result?
Will there be pressure in the second part?
I am looking forward to it, but I am also under a lot of pressure.
Because our Brothers and Sisters 2 will actually go to more places than the second episode.
It's also something I've never been to before.
So I think for me, it's also a very good learning process.
It can also make me more open-minded.
I'm really getting ready now, because it's going to start soon.
It's going to start in April.
So I'm very excited right now.
I think it's going to be...
It's also a journey that makes me look forward to.
I sincerely invite everyone to join me on this wonderful journey.
I can't wait.
I hope I can share what I've seen and heard with everyone.
We are also looking forward to the second part, and we can't wait to watch it.
We have put the focus on the film, and now we will focus on Belle.
We know that Belle has been a successful host in Hong Kong before filming the film.
I think I am very lucky.
I have a lot of opportunities since I entered the industry.
In the beginning, I had the opportunity to go to some international entertainment events such as the Oscars, Cannes Film Festival,
Milan, Paris, etc.
After joining TVB, I had a lot of opportunities to do some variety variety shows.
And then I also shot the world-wide segment and went to all over the world.
And last year, I just shot the show.
I think I was really lucky to be able to see different things.
I went all over the world to meet different friends.
And I think, for me, all the way to the end, even though it seems different at the beginning, at the beginning, it was probably entertainment news,
and then it was some variety shows, and then I got to the edge of the world.
Through our own eyes, through our camera, we can bring the world to the audience.
And I am very lucky.
I think I have the opportunity to do this all the way.
Until now, I have been keeping my curiosity about the world.
So I said that we are going to start filming the second part of The Endless Road.
I am also very looking forward to it.
I hope I can bring more audience friends to see, understand and get to know more.
Beier, we've been following up on your recent updates on Weibo.
Are there any plans to go somewhere in the mainland?
I came back to the mainland at the end of last year.
After the show, I came back to the mainland to promote the show and communicate with people.
Now, I'm going to start filming the show.
I was able to stay in the mainland for about 8 years after filming.
I found this trip very interesting because during the 3 months I was filming Invincible, I went to some big cities.
So for me, in this short year, I have a lot of opportunities to learn more about the development of our country in different cities and their people's lives.
It's very precious.
I went to Beijing this time.
I've been to Beijing a few times.
I like it very much.
Then Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen.
In Changsha, Chengdu, and so on.
I have made a lot of exchanges with my friends from there.
So I know that now our country and young people like to see what they want to know.
So I hope that in our future programs, we can send out what we should know and what is worth knowing.
So I'm really grateful to have this opportunity to be a bridge, to shoot more shows that everyone likes to watch, that are moving and sensitive to everyone.
We've also noticed that Bayer has recently done a series of films about the journey to the future.
I've also seen that they've updated the musicals, and also the two episodes of Hongquan and Gongfu.
What will they do next?
Yes, we have plans to continue filming.
We've been asking for everyone's time.
Yes, so I hope to continue to film about the heritage of Guangzhou non-tourism culture.
Because I am a recommender over there, so I hope to let everyone know more about Guangzhou's non-tourism projects.
I also hope that this program is really not just about sightseeing in Guangdong and Guangzhou, but in different places.
We are still in the process of making an appointment.
Cantonese, of course, is the language I spoke when I was young.
And I haven't learned Mandarin very well yet.
So I think language is a bridge for communication between people.
So if you need Cantonese, if you need Mandarin, I think it's very important to communicate.
You need to communicate to understand more.
So before filming the show, you were right about the Cantonese version.
But I also want to learn Mandarin.
I want to be able to communicate with my villagers in a familiar language.
So whether the program is Mandarin or Mandarin, I think it's all welcome.
I think it depends on the situation.
I can communicate with my villagers in any way.
Oh.
After the show, many Hong Kong viewers left me comments.
They were happy to learn more about the country's development through the show.
They gave us and our team a lot of encouragement.
They said they hoped we could continue filming.
I also think that there are too many stories worth filming in China.
So I think there are...
In addition to talking about Hong Kong and Hong Kong-Au area, we also mentioned a hot topic called Big Bay area.
Have you ever thought about shooting some special programs in the Big Bay area?
Yes, you are very smart.
I am already shooting.
I have been busy shooting the second part of the show in April.
Before I joined the group, I was actually filming other shows, such as The Journey to the City, and another one was filmed in the Bay Area.
I was also busy.
I think, yes, the 25th anniversary of the return of Hong Kong to China is a very special day.
For us, it's also very memorable.
So I've also been filming a show called to different places in Taiwan to see how Hong Kong can integrate into the development of our country,
and what contributions we can make.
On the other hand, we can also let Hong Kong people know that after returning to our motherland, our motherland has developed so well that there are many opportunities for us Hong Kongers.
So I think it's very interesting for us to be able to communicate more and let everyone know more about it.
I really want to do more.
We are also looking forward to your new show.
Thank you for sharing with us.
This is the end of today's live broadcast.
We are very grateful to you for sharing with us the story of the film, and the story before and after the stage.
It is very exciting and touching.
We also wish you a successful start to the filming of The Endless Road 2. We hope to see you again in the future.
Once again, thank you for being our guest today.
Dear netizens, please stay tuned for the next episode of our program.
See you next time.